before we begin today's feature
presentation we got to talk about pro
guides are you getting ganked in your
own lane constantly demolished well
don't worry because we've got you
covered
pro guides is the number one proven way
to quickly help you level up your League
of Legends skills whether you're looking
for tearless champion guides coaching or
courses from your favorite pro players
pro guides is where you'll find them
even players like knight blue bunny foo
foo and loco dokgo support ProGuard are
you waiting for click the link below to
start improving on top of that I am part
of the pro guys production team over on
their YouTube channel and I'm always
there posting content as well so you
might as well go over and sub the pro
guides because recently we put out a
pretty cool video called low e low
mistakes that you can improve on so
definitely go check that out now let's
get into our movie
a trunks hello there you know I've
watched over summoners rift for as long
as I can remember I've seen seasons
change metas shift new champions be
released and others update while some
seem to fade away with the passage of
time but you you're different you've had
such an interesting time here the
community the developers and even I
thought you would be amazing when you
were released but you aren't
were you and then you changed but it's
not the same your name is a resemblance
of your former self but you you a drunks
you're not what happened
[Music]
aatrox
he's a champion that over the years has
seen some pretty dark times there have
been plenty of times where he was
considered trolling underpowered useless
and in dire need of changes but the
irony is is that when that rework
finally came years later than it should
have it was no longer needed and in a
lot of ways no longer wanted it's really
not that aatrox was reworked but rather
one died so the other could be revived
the two types of a trucks that we've
seen the pre rework and the post rework
our most entirely different champions
and caused an outcry from the players
who loved him from a failed release to
complete an utter neglect from the
developers and then to finally have a
time that he could shine only to be
killed off in favor of a new version he
would then destroy the competitive scene
undergo countless removals of his
mechanics while receiving mini rework
after many reworked after many rework
and now finds himself in a bit of a
weird spot a champion that had so much
potential from the beginning with the
developers promising us so much an
incredible lore character model idea and
splash art to now be one of the worst
mistakes that we've seen from them and
cause a massive
in their community this is a Traxxas
story no one could have predicted that
before he was released
aatrox was going to be a failure because
in terms of his flash art in game
champion model on top of his amazing
lore and theme there was nothing wrong
with him for a champion released in
season 3 he felt very modern with a
great step from riot in developing a new
type of champion that none of us had
seen before which were the dark ins of
course in modern day League of Legends
they've expanded on this incredibly cool
theme and given us rust otherwise known
as red Kane who was also a darkened but
when he would be put into the game on
June 13th of 2013 it was only downhill
from that day the champion was buggy
awkward had horrible gameplay design and
flaws and felt very rushed
aatrox was notorious for one specific
ability in his original kit
essentially making no sense and
questioning why it was ever made to be
that way which was his old ultimate his
ultimate the supposed best ability in
any Champions kit scaled with ability
power and dealt magic damage on a
champion that built ad it did have
extremely high base damage so you could
get off some nice burst but that would
really only be if your opponent didn't
respect you or honestly even know what a
trucks did since it was so rare that you
would see this champion for this version
of a trucks he was by far the most
neglected champion we've ever seen let's
put this into perspective on patch 3.8
he was added into the
several months later he was given an
adjustment of power unpatched 3.13 and
they even nerfed his e by a little bit
we would then have to wait almost an
entire year later on patch 4.5 to see a
base armor increase of four then on the
next patch he was given a bug fix and
then we had to wait another six months
to have a very very small buff to his
passive and then we had to wait another
10 months until he finally got a nice
buff to his ultimate then we would wait
another four months and he would get
another decent buff this time to his
passive and that was it
aatrox would not receive any more
changes including bug fixes for another
two full years after that finally
unpatched 7.5 riot decided to do
something about it someone at their
headquarters had a meeting one Monday
morning back in 2017 and said hey guys
you know that champion that's right at
the top alphabetically you know that
he's terrible right and we haven't
touched him in years right can we try
some stuff think about it like this
patch 7.5 was released on March 8 2017
aatrox was added on june 13th 2013 that
is 1375 days almost 1,400 days to
receive three very small changes -
decent buffs and a bug fix
Azir used to get all of that every two
weeks and that's all that a trucks got
in two hundred weeks
you
when this patch finally came it didn't
start off too well
he would end up having to be hotfix
buffed later that week because he was
still terrible
however the framework was all there this
was easily one of their most successful
mini reworks they've ever done as it
genuinely did fix his problems I want
you to pay close attention to their
wording because we will come back to it
a bit later when we've talked about
aatrox we've typically focused on his
self he'll based gameplay and how
difficult it is to maintain tackling a
project that large is something more
appropriate for a full VG you or a
champion class update but that focus has
led us to neglect aatrox for far too
long
aatrox has other problems besides the
dice teenis of his self healing and
we're taking this time to tackle some of
those problems hopefully we'll come out
on the other side more comfortable
giving a trucks balance tweaks in the
future for the actual changes that he
got there are several key notes that I
want to look at first off aatrox is
passive used to be one of the weakest
parts of his kit and aside from the
revive mechanic
it was a weird thing that didn't really
help you too much and it also had these
really odd numbers like his passive
blood stacks scaling from 105 to 870 on
top of that you stacked blood well by
losing your own health effectively
making you stronger but at a cost of
riskier gameplay this theme of a health
draining 1v9 machine sounds pretty tough
to balance to say the least and it was
so these crucial passive changes would
end up proving pretty successful now his
passive capped out at 100 like every
other champion in the game that doesn't
use mana like Renekton Tryndamere etc
the way that you've stacked your passive
was also much better now York you would
give 20% blood well on its cast and your
other two basic abilities did the same
the health cost was completely removed
on your W and Q so you wouldn't end up
dying to your own kit because god forbid
you wanted to just play the game and
aatrox was given an all new passive
effect called blood rush which would be
later renamed because riot sort of
forgot that draven's W is already
blood rush great work guys anyway the
blood well mechanic would become his
bread in butter way of winning games
because all you had to do was stack up
some blood with your W turned on right
up to 60% then pressure Q to engage and
heed to follow up which both filled 20%
of your blood will instantly and then
you would have your max stacks gaining
attack damage and attack speed for a few
seconds and if you stayed in combat you
could refresh it I really hope that riot
spent a lot of time on this mini rework
and thinking about it pretty heavily
because it was really smart actually
[Music]
this would give the champion very clear
outplay potential from the enemy where
you would end up kiting him after he
reaches max stacks and then the aatrox
player was rewarded because every time
you got your god mode you would have a
specific time frame and this would be
your chance to do something rather than
just innately having an insane amount of
sustain there was a dedicated time to go
ham and a time to back off if you're the
opponent as stated before he wasn't
immediately strong but several buffs
came his way and a few number tweaks
would eventually push him to be top tier
along with several others the shinshin
was one of the early adopters of the
aatrox changes even before he was truly
opie he wasn't much of an aatrox player
at the time before the changes and was
mostly known for his jacks Olaf and
Darius but after these changes came
through for his mini rework he would
easily begin to adore the champion after
years of being one of the biggest jokes
rejects and failed champions by riot he
was officially strong and headed into
season eight he would only become
stronger with the introduction of a real
key stone for bruisers conker would be
the straw that broke the camel's back
for eight rocks it was the perfect room
for him in every single way on top of
being insanely opie for the first time
in literally forever he was a serious
threat at the competitive level conker
was the rune and guinsoo's rageblade
plus titanic hydra was the build this
would be the best two items bike
champion in the game and two items
versus two items no top laner could
match him in the side lane
you would hold one of the highest wind
rates in the top lane and many pro
players not only started to spam him but
even a Korean one trick would reach as
high as top five Korean challenger a
trucks players finally had the champion
they've been dreaming up for years but
remember that eight trucks made in Korea
right
his name was don't remake a trucks why
well do you remember that part about a
vgu
a visual gameplay update riot had
themselves a serious problem here they
put themselves in a pretty big hole the
thing that I don't understand the most
about the situation is the timing why
would riot go ahead and do this many
rework these are champion road maps and
it's what right releases to tell us
which reworks and new champions are
coming in the following months and this
one came out in July of 2017 for aatrox
so it's not just that riot knew he was
going to be reworked internally and know
what the timeline was but also the
entire community knew that he was being
reworked this was public information
posted on their website think about the
timeline here the mini rework came out
one month before the champion Road map
so they gave him these changes barely
even gave it a month and then said oh
yeah okay well we're just gonna fully
visually gameplay update aatrox
and change his abilities entirely why
would they continue to tease aatrox
players and people who liked this
version by finally fixing what was wrong
with him and then what felt like out of
nowhere he was reworked and it only felt
like it was out of nowhere simply
because his current state was so strong
if this rework came out one year before
nobody would have said anything
it feels like the language used on his
champion roadmap specifically is very
telling they don't say anything about
preserving his play style
in fact they straight-up say it wasn't
healthy if you look at their other
reworks let's see how riot reeved the
guy who posts the champion road maps
likes to describe the reworks Evelyn's
rework
well there's preserve forgot preserve
Warwick modernization and preserve kale
and Morgana preserve
and Willam preserving the ultimate and
consume what about the brand new
champion roadmap that was just released
the other month outlining the new
Fiddlesticks and volibear reworks coming
soon what does that say every other
rework talks about preserving the kit
preserving their identity but aatrox is
doesn't in fact the only thing that was
preserved from Wright's rework of aatrox
the literal only thing was his revive
and that's gone now that doesn't even
exist anymore
it's been completely removed and after a
few attempts to balance it there's no
more revived the champion is nothing
like his former self barring the red and
gray color scheme and the darkened
thematic the champion is more like other
champions than his own former version
when the rework came out at first it was
well trash it felt clunky underwhelming
and in general it was rushed and felt
incomplete
the W was very slow and it was super
hard to hit and the reward wasn't even
all that great because the SLO wasn't
even strong so naturally they would
hotfix buff him way way way over buff
him and then he would take over the
competitive scene the biggest difference
between all of the versions of aatrox
we've seen since the rework is that this
version right after the rework had the
most consistent use of his revive all
you had to do was press R and if you
were in your ultimate at the time of
dying you would be revived and of course
the pros would go nuts with this wanting
to give this thing a try and it's it's
really complicated intricate thing after
getting close to a fight which you need
to do is see if I can get this yeah you
press R that's all you really got to do
and then you can just run it the guy
faster and then your damage is higher
and you shouldn't
doing that after you start hitting
either get to the fight lace so as I
wait for this to timeout I'll see if I
can get it again and there's a lot of
combos that kind of come after this so
here's what we're gonna do we're gonna
try and do the full combo mana press R
and then drop all my damage on there and
it's really simple so you kind of press
R in there from there you kind of just
mash your face on the keyboard and you
just kind of do that for a little bit
and there you go that is how you play
aatrox in pro play every single
towerdive was successful
just make the aatrox tank for you every
one v1 was successful because eight
rocks had a huge steroid in a strong
laning phase and can be revived every
time you tried to gank in a trucks
it wouldn't work because he would press
R after being a top top-tier pick in
competitive play and solo queue for
months on end riot would make some
changes the amount of changes this
champion has received to his kit after
already being reworked is absurd and if
you think about it even modern-day
December 2019 aatrox has a lot of
differences from the rework last year
his revive went through several
iterations and now it's no longer there
H artists II used to have passive
healing upwards of thirty three percent
which worked on everything minions
monsters not just champions it was then
nerfed all the way down to 15 percent
then it was completely removed on non
champions and only healed you on
champions and then it was completely
removed again and reworked onto his
passive his II used to also be on a
charge system and hold up to two charges
nope that's gone to his Eve's to also
grant bonus attack damage but that's
been removed to his passive has received
a full-on rework it used to reduce
healing and shielding on the target but
now this has been removed completely and
is now just his form of built-in sustain
and of course his ultimate can now have
its duration extended if you get a
takedown and rather than reviving aatrox
gets increased healing and that part's
been changed too because at one point
Soraka aatrox was completely unkillable
aatrox has a huge problem which is very
similar to rise and that he's had so
many different versions of his kit
release aatrox was a Tryndamere esque
drain tank auto attack champ
and was completely terrible and a troll
pick then we have the post patch 7.58
rocks which was the real version of the
champion that we were promised back in
season three and was actually good we
then of course got the full rerelease
which would end up making riot jag one
of the most hated members of the company
because he changed the champion in a way
that removed a lot of what made players
like him and instead make him play a lot
more like Riven which is a totally
different champion and of course now we
have present-day aatrox which is
technically a version of the rework but
has received so many changes in play
style adjustments that it's not even the
same champion so where does this leave
us we have a version that people do tend
to like right now and he's decently
balanced at the moment at least compared
to his last season guaranteed revived
version and he's pretty strong in the
meta and has a decent play rate but
there's still a hole left by riot where
old aatrox used to be presumably they
put a lot of time into that mini rework
and it was so successful that it leaves
a lot of people wondering why did it
have to be removed after doing research
for this video I see a lot of lack of
consistency from riot and I believe that
the aatrox community has every reason to
be upset because it kind of feels like
no other champion has been given this
treatment
a lot of the other reworks used the same
wording about preserving the old play
style keeping the champion to the same
theme allowing veterans to feel at home
but this wasn't the case for aatrox a
lot of the other prestige skins have big
changes and are arguably in big
quotation marks kind of worth buying but
eight Roxas is almost just completely a
Croma every other victorious skin looks
nothing like their other skins but
aatrox is just a car aatrox is so
similar to the new victorious skin that
it looks like a big act of laziness from
riot
finally when begging and begging for
reverts kog'maw Mane's and rengar Mane's
got there old abilities back LeBlanc
Mane's and re Mane's got there old
abilities back too and even some recent
changes to Shaco have proven that
eventually they will listen to you but
not aatrox Mane's despite almost nothing
but hatred for his rework from that side
of the playerbase that likes the old one
he's not coming back despite the fact
that for some reason right finally
decided after years of neglect to fix
him and make him awesome enviable they
would then just take it away I don't
know why they'd been so reluctant to be
fair to him he's so cool his lore is
amazing he's had an incredibly cool kit
after the rework too and I personally
love the rework but that doesn't mean
that other players shouldn't be heard
just because I like the rework and he
plays very similar to the champions that
I play it doesn't inherently mean that
the old aatrox was treated fairly so
many players begged day by day to have
their old main back because it's not a
modernization it's not preserving the
champion it really wasn't even a rework
aatrox was more like the first champion
that riot has ever removed from league
of legends if you enjoyed this video
make sure to click like and subscribe
and I will see you all next time
[Music]